hi I'm medium and later from the classic
video game space invaders and I want to
tell you a little bit about where video
games came from a video game is an
electronic game that has an interface
designed for human interaction on a
video device simple video games are used
by scientists the military and people
like you and their evolution has spread
across arcades consoles computers
smartphones and all kinds of other
electronics these days video games are
everywhere but they were actually made
in science labs in fact the earliest us
video game patent on record was in 1948
and at the time it was referred to as a
cathode ray tube amusement device that's
a mouthful
some of the earliest video games include
the Nimrod computer hacksaw tennis for
two and my personal favorite space war
but none of these early video games were
ever sold in the public because they
were either too huge or too expensive to
get out of the lab this all changed when
a man named Ralph Baer looked at his
television screen and wondered how else
it might be used in 1972 bear's idea to
get video games out of the science lab
and into the living room led to the
release of a game console called Odyssey
policy allows you to play a game on your
TV ad about the same time to other
people Nolan Bushnell and Ted Dabney
were working on something similar in a
little company called Atari you might
have heard of it even if you haven't I'm
sure that your dad
Atari's first major game release was in
1972 an arcade game called pong it was
an immediate hit and it's credited as
the first commercially successful video
game Atari then released a home version
of pong in 1974 by 1978 competition
between Atari and another game company
called Midway was heating up Midway had
licensed an arcade game for the Japanese
company taro they put them on the map
the game space invaders it featured
iconic actors like me and it went on to
become the second-highest an arcade game
of Paul John space invaders also helped
kick off what is known as the Golden Age
of arcade games in response Atari
followed with the release of the arcade
game asteroids it ranks sixth on the
list of highest selling arcade games it
was a good game but it's no space
invaders by 1980 color came to arcade
games and this was also the year that
another video gaming milestone was born
pac-man created by the Japanese company
Namco was brought to the US by Midway
important to the spread of video games
into popular culture pac-man was a
character that could be licensed it
wasn't long before it had a song in the
charts a Saturday morning television
show and all sorts of other products in
just a year
pac-man arcade games made over 1 billion
dollars in quarters then in 1981 a
company called Nintendo started making
waves in the u.s. video game market with
their release of Donkey Kong it was the
earliest video game to have asteroid
line the story went a bit like this
Donkey Kong is the pet of a carpenter
named Jumpman Jumpman mistreats his pet
ape so the ape steals his girlfriend
leaving the game player to assume the
role of jump man and rescue the girl
jump man was eventually renamed to Mario
other iconic arcade games from the early
eighties include Frogger
Dragon Slayer and Mario Brothers perhaps
the last iconic game considered to be
part of the Golden Age of arcade games
is double dragon it was the first really
successful example of the beat'em up
genre it was released in 1987 and like
Donkey Kong it featured a damsel in
distress stroy line a storyline common
in many video games by the mid-90s the
Golden Age of arcade games was coming to
an end and the home game console was
gaining in popularity while arcade games
continued to decline in sales over the
years the popularity of video games was
merely beginning we will talk about that
and a lot more in part 2 of a brief
history of video games
you